# HealthcareAnalytics
Executive Summary:

United States medical care expenditures account have grown about 4 percent per year and growing share of GDP and policy makers continue to search for mechanisms to rein in expenditure growth. In this environment, understanding the demand for medical care is critical. Unfortunately, estimating medical care demand is particularly challenging. One of the central problems is that the marginal price of medical care faced by consumers is often determined by consumers through their selection of a health insurance plan. In this report by estimating the overall risk of health care system, our team has decided to predict the annual medical expenditures excluding dental and outpatient mental paid by the sponsor or policy-holder to the health plan to purchase health coverage. For this estimation, we have performed data modelling such as lasso and ridge regression which helped us to penalized some of the parameters and determining the several factors that affect the medical expenditures. For instance, the least healthy individuals may be more likely to choose a plan with the most generous insurance coverage, leading to an overestimate of the effect on medical care demand. We also found that females are more likely to suffer from chronic diseases and to seek help for these conditions, females are spending more on medical care in comparison to males. Depending on health variable, it appears that people with poor health condition are paying more to the health providers. Apart from them, our team has decided to create a custom package to avoid the iterative use of functions to check the performance metrics for models and we have developed a user friendly shiny application by which user can calculate their medical expenditure by providing significant factors on screen such as age, annual income, gender, health etc. and would help them in maintaining their expenditure.


